Docs 6711 write troubleshooting content pa (#37)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshoot-adapter-provisioning-issues.adoc

= Troubleshooting Adapter Provisioning Issues
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: service mesh, microservices, adapter provisioning issues, troubleshooting

> When you provision the adapter, you might encounter issues such as insufficient resources, or image cannot be accessed. This section provides possible causes for your deployment and service issues and describes how to troubleshoot these errors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you provision the adapter, you might encounter issues such as insufficient resources or an image that cannot be accessed. The following texts provide possible causes and solutions for your deployment and service issues:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> 

Reviewer: If we refer to these as doc elements (section, topics, etc.), then we must present them as topic titles, including title-style capitalization (we are referring to the name of the text rather than the issue encountered).

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<insufficient-resource-allocation,Insufficient resource allocation>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<insufficient-resource-allocation,Insufficient Resource Allocation>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<image-cannot-be-pulled,Image cannot be pulled>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<image-cannot-be-pulled,Image Cannot Be Pulled>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<mule-fails-due-to-license-issues,Mule Runtime Engine fails to start due to license issues>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<mule-fails-due-to-license-issues,Mule Runtime Engine Fails to Start Due to License Issues>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<catalog-content-init-failed,Catalog content initialization failed>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<catalog-content-init-failed,Catalog Content Initialization Failed>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<adapter-failed-to-delete, Adapter failed to delete>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<adapter-failed-to-delete, Adapter Failed to Delete>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[insufficient-resource-allocation]]
== Insufficient Resource Allocation

When you attempt to provision the adapter, your adapter might fail.

=== Cause

> If your adapter pod does not have sufficient CPU space allocated, your adapter fails as a result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your adapter pod does not have sufficient CPU space allocated, your adapter fails.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnose

To diagnose the issue: 

> . Check the adapter status by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the adapter status:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`$ ./service-mesh adapter list`
+
The status is displayed in a few minutes.
. If the adapter displays a Failed status, run the following command:
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pods`

> . Check the status of the adapter pod: `grpmule-<namespace>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the status of the adapter pod: 
`grpmule-<namespace>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> If the status is in Pending state, describe the pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the status is Pending, describe the pod:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh describe pods -l namespace=<namespace>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh describe pods -l namespace=<namespace>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . If you do not view the `grpmule-<namespace>` pod, run the same command right after creating the adapter, while it is being provisioned but before it has failed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you do not see the `grpmule-<namespace>` pod, run the same command immediately after creating the adapter, while it is being provisioned but before it has failed:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh describe pods -l namespace=<namespace>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh describe pods -l namespace=<namespace>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . In the Events section, verify that you have an “Insufficient CPU” or other resource listing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Take one of the following two actions:
* In the Events section, verify that you have an “Insufficient CPU” or other resource listing:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> //need a text of the screenshot here

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, need to add.

> . Alternatively, you can describe the nodes to check the resource allocation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Describe the nodes to check the resource allocation:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl describe nodes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl describe nodes`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

The allocated resources are displayed:

> //need a text of the screenshot here

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Removed! Thanks!

=== Solution

To resolve this issue:

. Delete the exisiting adapter.

> . Assign additional resources to your Kubernetes Cluster, as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Assign additional resources to your Kubernetes cluster, as required.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Provision your adapter again.

[[image-cannot-be-pulled]]

> == Image Cannot be Pulled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Image Cannot Be Pulled
```
https://capitalizemytitle.com/

Author: Done! Thanks!

After provisioning the adapter, it fails to start with the following error:

> //provide the exact error here

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, waiting for info.

=== Cause

> This issue can occur due to invalid credentials specified in the adapter or can occur due to issues with the registry-credentials-rotator pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue can occur due to either invalid credentials specified in the adapter or issues with the registry-credentials-rotator pod.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Diagnosis

To diagnose the issue, verify the status of the affected pods: 
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pods`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pods`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

Your pod might appear in either a `ErrImagePull` or a `ImagePullBackOff` state.

=== Solution

To resolve this issue:

. Ensure that the registry-credentials-rotator pod is running:
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l app=service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l app=service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Review the logs of the pod to determine if any incorrect client ID and client secret, no entitlement, or permissions issues occurred:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Review the logs of the pod to ensure that no client ID and client secret, entitlement, or permissions issues occurred:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh logs`
+

> `$(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l app=service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator -oname)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l app=service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator -oname)`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Verify that the pull secret was created:
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh get secret service-mesh-pull-secret`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh get secret service-mesh-pull-secret`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Verify that the correct platform URL and credentials are provided:
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh get secret service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator-env -ogo-template='CLIENT_ID:{{.data.CLIENT_ID|base64decode}} CLIENT_SECRET:{{.data.CLIENT_SECRET|base64decode}}'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh get secret service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator-env -ogo-template='CLIENT_ID:{{.data.CLIENT_ID|base64decode}} CLIENT_SECRET:{{.data.CLIENT_SECRET|base64decode}}'`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh get cm service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator-env  -ogo-template='PLATFORM_URI:{{.data.PLATFORM_URI}}`.

Reviewer: Please check the spacing in this syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh get cm service-mesh-registry-credentials-rotator-env  -ogo-template='PLATFORM_URI:{{.data.PLATFORM_URI}}`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[mule-fails-due-to-license-issues]]
== Mule Runtime Engine Fails to Start Due to Licence Issues

When you attempt to list your adapters, you might receive a failed status.

=== Cause

> If you did not provide a valid Mule license with the required entitlements, your Mule adapter will not start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you did not provide a valid Mule runtime engine (Mule) license, with the required entitlements, your Mule adapter does not start.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnosis

To diagnose the issue:

. Verify the adapter status:
+

> `$ ./service-mesh adapter list`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ ./service-mesh adapter list`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> . If the adapter status is displayed as `Failed`, verify the status of the (grpmule-<namespace>) adapter pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If the adapter status is `Failed`, verify the status of the (grpmule-<namespace>) adapter pod:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pods`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pods`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

In this case, your pod status might be displayed as `CrashLoopBackOff`.

=== Solution

To resolve this issue, update the adapter with a valid license:
+

> `$ ./service-mesh management config license --license=/path/to/license.lic`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ ./service-mesh management config license --license=/path/to/license.lic`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[catalog-content-init-failed]]
== Catalog Content Initialization Failed

When you attempt to provision an adapter, it might fail because the catalog content did not correctly initialize.

=== Cause

> The Catalog is a component installed by Anypoint Service Mesh, which is required to provision adapters, create bindings, and create APIs. If the Catalog is not initialized correctly, the adapter fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Anypoint Service Mesh Catalog component is required to provision adapters, create bindings, and create APIs. If the catalog is not initialized correctly, the adapter fails.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnosis

To diagnose the issue:

. Review the adapter logs:
+

> `$ ./service-mesh adapter logs --namespace=<adapter_namespace> --name=<adapter_name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ ./service-mesh adapter logs --namespace=<adapter_namespace> --name=<adapter_name>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> An output similar to the following text is displayed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output similar to the following is displayed:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`2019-11-26T20:46:35Z   Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "4f6e6cf6-ffdd-425f-a2c7-3c9258ad246a" ExternalName: "anypoint-service-mesh-adapter") at ClusterServiceBroker "service-mesh-incluster-broker": Status: 500; ErrorMessage: <nil>; Description: Catalog content init failed; ResponseError: <nil>`

=== Solution

> To resolve this issue, run the following command to force Catalog initialization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, run the following command to force catalog initialization:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh patch clusterservicebrokers/service-mesh-incluster-broker --type=json -p='[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/relistRequests","value":1}]'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh patch clusterservicebrokers/service-mesh-incluster-broker --type=json -p='[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/relistRequests","value":1}]'`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[adapter-failed-to-delete]]
== Adapter Failed to Delete

When you attempt to delete an adapter that you previously created, you might encounter issues.

=== Cause

If the adapter that you want to delete has service bindings associated with it, you cannot delete that adapter.

=== Diagnosis

> To diagnose the issue, verify  the adapter status:

Reviewer: omit extra space
```suggestion
To diagnose the issue, verify adapter status:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ ./service-mesh adapter list`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ ./service-mesh adapter list`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> In the output of the command, if there are bindings associated with the adapter or the service instance, the status is displayed as `DeprovisionBlockedByExistingCredentials`. This means that the service has associated bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are bindings associated with the adapter or the service instance, the status is displayed as `DeprovisionBlockedByExistingCredentials`.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Solution

> To resolve this issue, delete all the bindings associated with the adapter. When every binding is successfully deleted, then the adapter will be also deleted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, delete all the bindings associated with the adapter. When every binding is successfully deleted, the adapter is also deleted. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

For more information, see xref:https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes-engine-samples/tree/master/service-catalog#instance-has-remaining-bindings[Kubernetes] help. 

> 

Reviewer: Let's talk some time about tightening up this template. I think we can omit some unnecessary repetition.

Author: ok sure!
